About the Eclipse Foundation

    What is Eclipse and the Eclipse Foundation?
    Services of the Foundation
        IT Infrastructure
        Intellectual Property (IP) Management
        Development Community Support
        Ecosystem Development
    A Unique Model for Open Source Development
    What is the history of Eclipse?

What is Eclipse and the Eclipse Foundation?

Eclipse is a community for individuals and organizations who wish to collaborate on 
commercially-friendly open source software. Its projects are focused on building an
 open development platform comprised of extensible frameworks, tools and runtimes for 
building, deploying and managing software across the lifecycle. The Eclipse Foundation
 is a not-for-profit, member supported corporation that hosts the Eclipse projects and 
helps cultivate both an open source community and an ecosystem of complementary products
 and services.

The Eclipse Project was originally created by IBM in November 2001 and supported by a 
consortium of software vendors. The Eclipse Foundation was created in January 2004 as an
 independent not-for-profit corporation to act as the steward of the Eclipse community. 
The independent not-for-profit corporation was created to allow a vendor neutral and open,
 transparent community to be established around Eclipse. Today, the Eclipse community 
consists of individuals and organizations from a cross section of the software industry.

The Eclipse Foundation is funded by annual dues from our members and governed by a Board 
of Directors. Strategic Developers and Strategic Consumers hold seats on this Board, as do 
representatives elected by Add-in Providers and Open Source committers. The Foundation 
employs a full-time professional staff to provide services to the community but does not
 employ the open source developers, called committers, which actually work on the Eclipse
 projects. Eclipse committers are typically employed by organizations or are independent 
developers that volunteer their time to work on an open source project.

In general, the Eclipse Foundation provides four services to the Eclipse community: 1) 
IT Infrastructure, 2) IP Management,3) Development Process, and 4) Ecosystem Development.
 Full-time staff are associated with each of these areas and work with the greater Eclipse 
community to assist in meeting the needs of the stakeholders.